.TH LaunchMON 3 "JULY 2012" LaunchMON "LaunchMON Back-End API"

.SH NAME
LMON_be_init LMON_be_finalize \- LaunchMON back-end API: back-end initialization/finalization functions. 

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <lmon_be.h>
.PP
.BI "lmon_rc_e LMON_be_init ( int " ver ", int *" pargc ", char ***" pargv " );"
.PP
.BI "lmon_rc_e LMON_be_finalize ( );"
.PP
.B cc ... -lmonbeapi

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBLMON_be_init()\fR function initializes the LaunchMON back-end. 
Each back-end tool daemon must call this function before using any other
back-end API calls. \fBLMON_be_init()\fR
performs the communication subsystem setup as well 
as other sanity checks including a library-header version 
mismatch check for its client daemon. 
The caller must pass \fBLMON_VERSION\fR, 
a macro defined in the \fBlmon_be.h\fR file, 
to the \fIver\fR argument for proper version matching. 
\fIpargc\fR and \fIpargv\fR are the pointers to the 
argument count and the argument list that the client 
tool daemon gets passed at the \fImain\fR function. 
During the communication subsystem setup process, the runtime
selects a single master, the daemon that coordinates 
communications with other LaunchMON components on behalf of 
the rest of back-end daemons. The client daemon
must use the \fBLMON_be_amIMaster\fR(3) function to determine if it is 
selected as the master daemon, should that information be needed.  

The \fBLMON_be_finalize ()\fR function finalizes  LaunchMON 
back-end resources including its communication subsystem. 
Each back-end daemon must call this fuction to be finalized
correctly. The behavior of any subsequent LaunchMON back-end API calls 
after \fBLMON_be_finalize ()\fR is undefined. 

.PP
\fB[IBM BlueGene Note]\fR The \fBLMON_be_finalize ()\fR function
sends an END_DEBUG message to CIOD for the CIOD debug protocol
larger than or equal to 3. Sending this message tells
CIOD to reset the environment to be able to allow another 
tool to attach to the job. 

.SH RETURN VALUE
These functions return \fBLMON_OK\fR
on success; otherwise, an LMON error code is returned 
as described below.

.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B LMON_OK
Success.
.TP
.B LMON_ESUBCOM
Encountered an error during a communication subsystem operation. 
.TP
.B LMON_ESYS
Encountered a system error. 
(likely attributed to an error in a UNIX socket API call.)  
.TP
.B LMON_EINVAL
Encountered any other erroneous conditions including 
a library-header version mismatch.

.SH AUTHOR
Dong H. Ahn <ahn1@llnl.gov>

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.BP LMON_fe_attachAndSpawnDaemons(3),
.BP LMON_fe_createSession(3),
.BR LMON_fe_detach(3),
.BR LMON_fe_getMwHostlist(3),
.BR LMON_fe_getMwHostlistSize(3),
.BR LMON_fe_getProctable(3),
.BR LMON_fe_getProctableSize(3),
.BR LMON_fe_getRMInfo(3),
.BR LMON_fe_getResourceHandle(3),
.BR LMON_fe_getStatus(3),
.BR LMON_fe_init(3),
.BR LMON_fe_kill(3),
.BR LMON_fe_launchAndSpawnDaemons(3),
.BR LMON_fe_launchMwDaemons(3),
.BR LMON_fe_putToBeDaemonEnv(3),
.BR LMON_fe_putToMwDaemonEnv(3),
.BR LMON_fe_recvUsrDataBe(3),
.BR LMON_fe_recvUsrDataMw(3),
.BR LMON_fe_regErrorCB(3),
.BR LMON_fe_regPackForFeToBe(3),
.BR LMON_fe_regPackForFeToMw(3),
.BR LMON_fe_regStatusCB(3),
.BR LMON_fe_regUnpackForBeToFe(3),
.BR LMON_fe_regUnpackForMwToFe(3),
.BR LMON_fe_sendUsrDataBe(3),
.BR LMON_fe_sendUsrDataMw(3),
.BR LMON_fe_shutdownDaemons(3),
.BR LMON_be_amIMaster(3),
.BR LMON_be_assist_mw_coloc(3),
.BR LMON_be_barrier(3),
.BR LMON_be_broadcast(3),
.BR LMON_be_finalize(3),
.BR LMON_be_gather(3),
.BR LMON_be_getMyProctab(3),
.BR LMON_be_getMyProctabSize(3),
.BR LMON_be_getMyRank(3),
.BR LMON_be_getSize(3),
.BR LMON_be_handshake(3),
.BR LMON_be_init(3),
.BR LMON_be_ready(3),
.BR LMON_be_recvUsrData(3),
.BR LMON_be_regErrorCB(3),
.BR LMON_be_regPackForBeToFe(3),
.BR LMON_be_regUnpackForFeToBe(3),
.BR LMON_be_scatter(3),
.BR LMON_be_sendUsrData(3),
.BR LMON_mw_amIMaster(3),
.BR LMON_mw_barrier(3),
.BR LMON_mw_broadcast(3),
.BR LMON_mw_finalize(3),
.BR LMON_mw_gather(3),
.BR LMON_mw_getMyRank(3),
.BR LMON_mw_getSize(3),
.BR LMON_mw_handshake(3),
.BR LMON_mw_init(3),
.BR LMON_mw_ready(3),
.BR LMON_mw_recvUsrData(3),
.BR LMON_mw_regErrorCB(3),
.BR LMON_mw_regPackForMwToFe(3),
.BR LMON_mw_regUnpackForFeToMw(3),
.BR LMON_mw_scatter(3),
.BR LMON_mw_sendUsrData(3)

