.TH LaunchMON 3 "MAY 2009" LaunchMON "LaunchMON Front-End API"

.SH NAME
LMON_fe_regStatusCB \- LaunchMON front-end API: registers a status notifying callback function. 

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <unistd.h>
.B #include <lmon_fe.h>
.PP
.PP
.BI "lmon_rc_e LMON_fe_regStatusCB ( 
.BI "  int " sessionHandle, " int ( *"statusCB " ) (int *"status "));"
.B cc ... -lmonfeapi

.SH DESCRIPTION

\fBLMON_fe_regStatusCB\fR registers the \fIstatusCB\fR function 
for the session indicated by the \fIsessionHandle\fR argument.
LaunchMON calls back the registered routine on 
the following state changes: the given session is registered; 
back-end daemons are spawned; middleware daemons are spawned; 
the job is detached from the LaunchMON engine's control; 
and the job is killed.  
The following macros are provided to help the callback routine 
decoding the \fIstatus\fR argument.
 
.TP
.BI WIFREGISTERED( status ) 
Evaluates to a non-zero value if the session is registered.
.TP 
.BI WIFBESPAWNED( status ) 
Evaluates to a non-zero value if the back-end daemons have been spawned.
.TP
.BI WIFMWSPAWNED( status ) 
Evaluates to a non-zero value if the middleware daemons have been spawned.
.TP
.BI WIFDETACHED( status ) 
Evaluates to a non-zero value if the job has been detached.
.TP
.BI IFKILLED( status ) 
Evaluates to a non-zero value if the job has been killed.


.SH RETURN VALUE
\fBLMON_OK\fR on success; otherwise, an LMON error code is returned as described below. 

.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B LMON_OK
Success.
.TP
.B LMON_EBDARG
Invalid arguments.

.SH AUTHOR
Dong H. Ahn <ahn1@llnl.gov>

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR LMON_fe_init(3),
.BR LMON_fe_createSession(3),
.BR LMON_fe_launchAndSpawnDaemons(3),
.BR LMON_fe_kill(3),
.BR LMON_fe_detach(3),
.BR LMON_fe_shutdownDaemons(3),
.BR LMON_fe_regUnpackForBeToFe(3),
.BR LMON_fe_regPackForFeToBe(3),
.BR LMON_fe_putToBeDaemonEnv(3),
.BR LMON_fe_sendUsrDataBe(3),
.BR LMON_fe_recvUsrDataBe(3),
.BR LMON_fe_getProctable(3),
.BR LMON_fe_getProctableSize(3),
.BR LMON_fe_getResourceHandle(3),
.BR LMON_fe_regErrorCB(3),
.BR LMON_be_init(3),
.BR LMON_be_finalize(3),
.BR LMON_be_getMyRank(3),
.BR LMON_be_getSize(3),
.BR LMON_be_amIMaster(3),
.BR LMON_be_handshake(3),
.BR LMON_be_ready(3),
.BR LMON_be_barrier(3),
.BR LMON_be_broadcast(3),
.BR LMON_be_gather(3),
.BR LMON_be_scatter(3),
.BR LMON_be_regPackForBeToFe(3),
.BR LMON_be_regUnpackForFeToBe(3),
.BR LMON_be_recvUsrData(3),
.BR LMON_be_sendUsrData(3),
.BR LMON_be_getMyProctab(3),
.BR LMON_be_getMyProctabSize(3)
