.TH LaunchMON 3 "MAY 2014" LaunchMON "LaunchMON Middleware API"

.SH NAME
LMON_mw_barrier LMON_mw_broadcast LMON_mw_gather LMON_mw_scatter \- LaunchMON Middleware API: collective communication functions.  

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <lmon_mw.h>
.PP
.BI "lmon_rc_e LMON_mw_barrier ( );"
.PP
.BI "lmon_rc_e LMON_mw_broadcast ( void *" buf ", int " numbytes " );"
.PP
.BI "lmon_rc_e LMON_mw_gather ( void *" sendbuf ", int " perElemNumbytes ", void *" recvbuf " );"
.PP
.BI "lmon_rc_e LMON_mw_scatter ( void *" sendbuf ", int " perElemNumbytes ", void *" recvbuf " );"
.PP
.B cc ... -lmonmwapi

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBLMON_mw_barrier()\fR, \fBLMON_mw_broadcast()\fR, \fBLMON_mw_gather()\fR,
and \fBLMON_mw_scatter()\fR provide collective communication services to 
middleware tool daemons. Thus, these functions require all of the middleware daemons 
associated with a session (see \fBLMON_launchAndSpawnDaemons\fR(3)) 
to participate in the calls for a successful transaction.  

The \fBLMON_mw_barrier()\fR function blocks the calling daemon until 
all daemons have called it. 

The \fBLMON_mw_broadcast()\fR function broadcasts the data 
from the master middleware daemon to the rest. \fIbuf\fR is the 
starting address of the send buffer for the master and 
the starting address of the receive buffer for the slave daemons. The \fInumbyte\fR 
argument specifies the total number of bytes in \fIbuf\fR.

The \fBLMON_mw_gather ()\fR function allows the master daemon 
to gather data into \fIrecvbuf\fR which is hence only meaningful to
the master. Each middleware daemon must provide its per-daemon data thru
the \fIsendbuf\fR argument. \fIperElemNumbytes\fR specifies the number 
of bytes in \fIsendbuf\fR.

The \fBLMON_mw_scatter()\fR function allows the master daemon 
to scatter \fIsendbuf\fR to all of middleware daemons. Thus,
\fIsendbuf\fR is only significant to the master. 
Each daemon receives its own portion via the \fIrecvbuf\fR
argument. \fIperElemNumbytes\fR specifies the number of bytes
in \fIrecvbuf\fR. 

.SH RETURN VALUE
These functions return \fBLMON_OK\fR
on success; otherwise, an LMON error code is returned 
as described below. 

.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B LMON_OK
Success.
.TP
.B LMON_ESUBCOM
Encountered an error during a communication subsystem operation. 
.TP
.B LMON_EINVAL
Encountered any other erroneous conditions. 

.SH AUTHOR
Dong H. Ahn <ahn1@llnl.gov>

