.TH LaunchMON 3 "MAY 2014" LaunchMON "LaunchMON Front-End API"

.SH NAME
LMON_fe_getRMInfo \- LaunchMON front-end API: provides RM info. 

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <unistd.h>
.B #include <lmon_fe.h>
.PP
.PP
.BI "lmon_rc_e LMON_fe_getRMInfo ( int " sessionHandle, " lmon_rm_info_t * " info " ); "
.B cc ... -lmonfeapi

.SH DESCRIPTION

\fBLMON_fe_getRMInfo()\fR provides information through \fIinfo\fR on the underlying 
resource management software system with that LaunchMON interacts for
the tool session associated with \fIsessionHandle\fR. \fIinfo\fR must point
to the storage holding the \fBlmon_rm_info_t\fR type:
.PP
.nf
.B typedef enum {
.B "   "RC_mchecker_rm, "
.B "   "RC_slurm, "
.B "   "RC_bglrm, "
.B "   "RC_bgprm, "
.B "   "RC_bgqrm, "
.B "   "RC_bgrm, "
.B "   "RC_alps, "
.B "   "RC_orte, "
.B "   "RC_flux, "
.B "   "RC_none "
.B "} rm_catalogue_e;
.PP
.B typedef struct {
.B "   "rm_catalogue_e *rm_supported_types; "
.B "   "int num_supported_types; "
.B "   "int index_to_cur_instance; "
.B "   "pid_t rm_launcher_pid; "
.B "} lmon_rm_info_t;
.fi
.PP

The \fIrm\_supported\_types\fR field is a pointer to an array of
the length of \fInum\_supported\_types\fR, containing the supported
resource manager types (the \fIrm\_catalogue\_e\fR type) for the platform. These fields contain static information
and thus are available before an active session is instantiated with
a specific resource manager. However, \fIindex\_to\_cur\_instance\fR and \fIrm\_launcher\_pid\fR are specific to a resource manager that the session
instantiates. Thus, these two later fields become available only after \fBLMON\_fe\_launchAndSpawnDaemons()\fR or \fBLMON\_fe\_attachAndSpawnDaemons()\fR is
successfully returned for the session.

.SH RETURN VALUE
\fBLMON_OK\fR when all the fields of \fIinfo\fR are available;
\fBLMON_EDUNAV\fR only when \fIrm\_supported\_types\fR and \fInum\_supported\_types\fR are available; otherwise, an LMON error code 
is returned as described below.

.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B LMON_OK
Success.
.TP
.B LMON_EBDARG
Invalid arguments.
.TP
.B LMON_EINVAL,
Invalid session.
.TP
.B LMON_EDUNAV
Neither the pid of the target job launcher (\fIrm\_launcher\_pid\fR) nor \fIindex\_to\_cur\_instance\fR is  available.

.SH AUTHOR
Dong H. Ahn <ahn1@llnl.gov>

