.TH LaunchMON 3 "JULY 2012" LaunchMON "LaunchMON Back-End API"

.SH NAME
LMON_be_getMyProctab LMON_be_getMyProctabSize \- LaunchMON back-end API: resource manager data access functions.  

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <lmon_be.h>
.PP
.BI "lmon_rc_e LMON_be_getMyProctab ( MPIR_PROCDESC_EXT *" buf ", int *" size ", int " max " );"
.PP
.BI "lmon_rc_e LMON_be_getMyProctabSize ( int *" size " );"
.PP
.B cc ... -lmonbeapi

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBLMON_be_getMyProctab()\fR returns the per-daemon target process descriptor table via 
the \fIbuf\fR argument. The maximum number of table entries that \fIbuf\fR can
hold is specified by \fImax\fR. This function constructs the calling daemon's 
local target process table 
using the global remote process descriptor table that is
distributed as part of front-end<->back-end handshake operations 
(see \fBLMON_be_handshake\fR(3) and \fBLMON_be_ready\fR(3)).  This 
function requires \fBMPIR_PROCDESC_EXT\fR type, a C struct
extending \fBMPIR_PROCDESC\fR.

.PP
.nf
.B typedef struct {
.B "   "char *host_name;
.B "   "char *executable_name; "
.B "   "int pid;  "
.B "} MPIR_PROCDESC;
.PP
.B typedef struct {
.B "   "MPIR_PROCDESC pd;
.B "   "int mpirank;
.B } MPIR_PROCDESC_EXT;
.fi
.PP
 
The \fBLMON_be_getProctableSize()\fR function returns the total number
of entries in the per-daemon target process descriptor table via the \fIsize\fR argument.

These functions return an invalid return code if the client daemon uses them before 
\fBLMON_be_ready\fR(3).

.SH RETURN VALUE
These functions return \fBLMON_OK\fR
on success; otherwise, an LMON error code is returned 
as described below. 

.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B LMON_OK
Success.
.TP
.B LMON_ESYS
A system error (likely attributed to an error in a sockets API call).
.TP
.B LMON_ENOMEM
Out of memory.
.TP
.B LMON_EDUNAV
Requested information unavailable.
.TP
.B LMON_ETRUNC
Returned \fIbuf\fR contains truncated remote process descriptor table.
.TP
.B LMON_EINVAL
Encountered other erroneous conditions. 

.SH NOTE
The overhead costs of these functions 
can be high especially when a daemon invokes it for the first time at large scale. The first invocation
requires the parsing of the entire global remote process table which can be expensive as the table size grows 
linearly with increasing scale. 
These functions, 
however, caches the parsed table during the first invocation,
amortizing the overhead costs over subsequent invocations made by the daemon. 

.SH AUTHOR
Dong H. Ahn <ahn1@llnl.gov>

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.BP LMON_fe_attachAndSpawnDaemons(3),
.BP LMON_fe_createSession(3),
.BR LMON_fe_detach(3),
.BR LMON_fe_getMwHostlist(3),
.BR LMON_fe_getMwHostlistSize(3),
.BR LMON_fe_getProctable(3),
.BR LMON_fe_getProctableSize(3),
.BR LMON_fe_getRMInfo(3),
.BR LMON_fe_getResourceHandle(3),
.BR LMON_fe_getStatus(3),
.BR LMON_fe_init(3),
.BR LMON_fe_kill(3),
.BR LMON_fe_launchAndSpawnDaemons(3),
.BR LMON_fe_launchMwDaemons(3),
.BR LMON_fe_putToBeDaemonEnv(3),
.BR LMON_fe_putToMwDaemonEnv(3),
.BR LMON_fe_recvUsrDataBe(3),
.BR LMON_fe_recvUsrDataMw(3),
.BR LMON_fe_regErrorCB(3),
.BR LMON_fe_regPackForFeToBe(3),
.BR LMON_fe_regPackForFeToMw(3),
.BR LMON_fe_regStatusCB(3),
.BR LMON_fe_regUnpackForBeToFe(3),
.BR LMON_fe_regUnpackForMwToFe(3),
.BR LMON_fe_sendUsrDataBe(3),
.BR LMON_fe_sendUsrDataMw(3),
.BR LMON_fe_shutdownDaemons(3),
.BR LMON_be_amIMaster(3),
.BR LMON_be_assist_mw_coloc(3),
.BR LMON_be_barrier(3),
.BR LMON_be_broadcast(3),
.BR LMON_be_finalize(3),
.BR LMON_be_gather(3),
.BR LMON_be_getMyProctab(3),
.BR LMON_be_getMyProctabSize(3),
.BR LMON_be_getMyRank(3),
.BR LMON_be_getSize(3),
.BR LMON_be_handshake(3),
.BR LMON_be_init(3),
.BR LMON_be_ready(3),
.BR LMON_be_recvUsrData(3),
.BR LMON_be_regErrorCB(3),
.BR LMON_be_regPackForBeToFe(3),
.BR LMON_be_regUnpackForFeToBe(3),
.BR LMON_be_scatter(3),
.BR LMON_be_sendUsrData(3),
.BR LMON_mw_amIMaster(3),
.BR LMON_mw_barrier(3),
.BR LMON_mw_broadcast(3),
.BR LMON_mw_finalize(3),
.BR LMON_mw_gather(3),
.BR LMON_mw_getMyRank(3),
.BR LMON_mw_getSize(3),
.BR LMON_mw_handshake(3),
.BR LMON_mw_init(3),
.BR LMON_mw_ready(3),
.BR LMON_mw_recvUsrData(3),
.BR LMON_mw_regErrorCB(3),
.BR LMON_mw_regPackForMwToFe(3),
.BR LMON_mw_regUnpackForFeToMw(3),
.BR LMON_mw_scatter(3),
.BR LMON_mw_sendUsrData(3)

