.TH LaunchMON 3 "MAY 2014" LaunchMON "LaunchMON Front-End API"

.SH NAME
LMON_fe_detach, LMON_fe_shutdownDaemons, LMON_fe_kill \- LaunchMON front-end API: job/daemon control functions

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <lmon_fe.h>
.PP
.BI "lmon_rc_e LMON_fe_detach ( int " sessionHandle " );"
.PP
.BI "lmon_rc_e LMON_fe_shutdownDaemons ( int " sessionHandle " );"
.PP
.BI "lmon_rc_e LMON_fe_kill ( int " sessionHandle " );"

.B cc ... -lmonfeapi

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBLMON_fe_detach()\fR function detaches from the MPI job launcher associated
with \fIsessionHandle\fR while leaving the tool daemons to continue running. 
.PP
The \fBLMON_fe_shutdownDaemons()\fR detaches from the MPI job launcher associated
with \fIsessionHandle\fR and shuts down the tool daemons. \fB[Blue Gene Note]\fR
Because Blue Gene control systems do not offer a mechanism to shut down 
back-end daemons, the shutdown operation is NOOP for back-end tool daemons on this platform. 
.PP
The \fBLMON_fe_kill()\fR function destroys all resources associated
with \fIsessionHandle\fR including the target job and tool daemons. 
\fB[Blue Gene Note]\fR Because the Blue Gene control system does not offer a mechanism to shut down 
back-end daemons, the kill operatioin is NOOP for back-end tool daemons on this platform.

.SH RETURN VALUE
Those functions return \fBLMON_OK\fR on success; otherwise, an 
LMON error code is returned as described below.

.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B LMON_OK
Success.
.TP
.B LMON_EBDARG
\fIsessionHandle\fR is invalid.
.TP
.B LMON_ETOUT
Timed out 
.TP
.B LMON_EINVAL
Encountered other invalid conditions.

.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.TP
.B LMON_FE_DMONCTL_TIMEOUT
Overwrites the timeout value: [1-600] seconds (default: 30)

.SH AUTHOR
Dong H. Ahn <ahn1@llnl.gov>

