.TH LaunchMON 3 "FEBRUARY 2008" LaunchMON "LaunchMON Front-End API"

.SH NAME
LMON_fe_getProctable LMON_fe_getProctableSize LMON_fe_getResourceHandle \- LaunchMON front-end API: resource manager data access functions

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <lmon_fe.h>
.PP
.BI "lmon_rc_e LMON_fe_getProctable ( int " sessionHandle ","
.BI "  MPIR_PROCDESC_EXT *" proctab ", unsigned int *" size ", unsigned int " maxlen " );"
.PP
.BI "lmon_rc_e LMON_fe_getProctableSize ( int " sessionHandle ", unsigned int *" size " );"
.PP
.BI "lmon_rc_e LMON_fe_getResourceHandle ( int " sessionHandle ","
.BI "  char *" handle ", int *" size ", int " maxstring " );"
.PP
.B cc ... -lmonfeapi
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBLMON_fe_getProctable()\fR function returns the remote
process descriptor table of the job associated with 
\fIsessionHandle\fR via the \fIproctab\fR argument. The number of table entries
that this function returns is either the total number of entries in the table
or \fImaxlen\fR whichever is smaller. In either case, however, this function returns
the total number of entries of the table via the \fIsize\fR argument. 
This function requires \fBMPIR_PROCDESC_EXT\fR type, a C struct
extending \fBMPIR_PROCDESC\fR. \fImpirank\fR is the MPI rank of the
describing process. \fIcnodeid\fR is the compute node id of the
compute node where the process is running. It is a platform-specific
integer identification and thus a platform may or may not
define it. Currently, it is defined only on IBM Blue Gene /Q platform.

.PP
.nf
.B typedef struct {
.B "   "char *host_name;
.B "   "char *executable_name; "
.B "   "int pid;  " 
.B "} MPIR_PROCDESC;
.PP 
.B typedef struct {
.B "   "MPIR_PROCDESC pd;
.B "   "int mpirank;
.B "   "int cnodeid;
.B } MPIR_PROCDESC_EXT;
.fi
.PP

The \fBLMON_fe_getProctableSize()\fR function returns the total number
of entries in the remote process descriptor table via the \fIsize\fR argument.

The \fBLMON_fe_getResourceHandle()\fR function 
returns the resource handle associated with 
\fIsessionHandle\fR via the \fIhandle\fR argument
when such information is available. For example,  
for SLURM-based systems, \fIhandle\fR is the \fBjobid\fR 
of the target job, the RM's handle for the node allocation for this job.  
.PP
\fBLMON_fe_getProctable()\fR, \fBLMON_fe_getProctableSize()\fR and \fBLMON_fe_getResourceHandle()\fR
are valid only when they are called after a successful 
\fBLMON_fe_attachAndSpawnDaemons()\fR 
or \fBLMON_fe_launchAndSpawnDaemons()\fR call. 

.SH RETURN VALUE
Those functions return \fBLMON_OK\fR on success; otherwise, an 
LMON error code is returned. 

.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B LMON_OK
Success.
.TP
.B LMON_EBDARG
Invalid arguments.
.TP
.B LMON_EDUNAV
The requested information is unavailable.
.TP
.B LMON_ETRUNC
Returned \fIbuf\fR contains truncated remote process descriptor table.
.TP
.B LMON_EINVAL
Encountered other errorenous conditions. 

.SH AUTHOR
Dong H. Ahn <ahn1@llnl.gov>

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR LMON_fe_init(3),
.BR LMON_fe_createSession(3),
.BR LMON_fe_attachAndSpawnDaemons(3),
.BR LMON_fe_launchAndSpawnDaemons(3),
.BR LMON_fe_kill(3),
.BR LMON_fe_detach(3),
.BR LMON_fe_shutdownDaemons(3),
.BR LMON_fe_regUnpackForBeToFe(3),
.BR LMON_fe_regPackForFeToBe(3),
.BR LMON_fe_putToBeDaemonEnv(3),
.BR LMON_fe_sendUsrDataBe(3),
.BR LMON_fe_recvUsrDataBe(3),
.BR LMON_fe_regErrorCB(3),
.BR LMON_fe_regStatusCB(3),
.BR LMON_fe_getRMInfo(3),
.BR LMON_be_init(3),
.BR LMON_be_finalize(3),
.BR LMON_be_getMyRank(3),
.BR LMON_be_getSize(3),
.BR LMON_be_amIMaster(3),
.BR LMON_be_handshake(3),
.BR LMON_be_ready(3),
.BR LMON_be_barrier(3),
.BR LMON_be_broadcast(3),
.BR LMON_be_gather(3),
.BR LMON_be_scatter(3),
.BR LMON_be_regPackForBeToFe(3),
.BR LMON_be_regUnpackForFeToBe(3),
.BR LMON_be_recvUsrData(3),
.BR LMON_be_sendUsrData(3),
.BR LMON_be_getMyProctab(3),
.BR LMON_be_getMyProctabSize(3)
